A dragon appeared near Kiev; he took heavy tribute from the people - a lovely maiden from every house, whom he then devoured.
Finally, it was the fate of the tsar's daughter to go to the dragon.
He seized her and dragged her to his lair but did not devour her, because she was a beauty.
Instead, he took her to wife.
Whenever he went out, he boarded up his house to prevent the princess from escaping.
The princess had a little dog that had followed her to the dragon's lair.
The princess often wrote to her father and mother.
She would attach her letter to the dog's neck, and the dog would take it to them and even bring back the answer.
One day the tsar and tsarina wrote to their daughter, asking her to find out who in this world was stronger than the dragon.
The princess became kindlier toward the dragon and began to question him.
For a long time he did not answer, but one day he said inadvertently that a tanner in the city of Kiev was stronger than he.
When the princess heard this, she wrote her father to find Nikita the Tanner in Kiev and to send him to deliver her from captivity.
Upon receiving this letter, the tsar went in person to beg Nikita the Tanner to free his land from the wicked dragon and rescue the princess.
At that moment Nikita was currying hides and held twelve hides in his hands; when he saw that the tsar in person had come to see him, he began to tremble with fear, his hands shook, and he tore the twelve hides.
But no matter how much the tsar and tsarina entreated him, he refused to go forth against the dragon.
So they gathered together five thousand little children and sent them to implore him, hoping that their tears would move him to pity.
The little children came to Nikita and begged him with tears to go fight the dragon.
Nikita himself began to shed tears when he saw theirs.
He took twelve thousand pounds of hemp, tarred it with pitch, and wound it around himself so that the dragon could not devour him, then went forth to give him battle.
Nikita came to the dragon's lair but the dragon locked himself in.
And he began to break down the door.
The dragon, seeing that he could not avoid trouble, went out to fight in the open field.
Nikita fought him for a long time or a short time; in any event, he defeated him.
He made a plow that weighed twelve thousand pounds, harnessed the dragon to it, and the dragon began to plow a boundary from Kiev; he plowed a furrow from Kiev to the Caspian Sea.
The dragon crawled to the middle of the sea; Nikita killed him and drowned him in the sea.
Nikita, having done his heroic deed, would not accept any reward, but returned to currying hides.
