In old times there was a village where a serpent frequently flew.
He had devoured all but one of the villagers.
At that time a gypsy came to the village.
He came at night and no matter where he looked, he couldn't find anyone!
He finally entered the last hut where the last man was sitting and crying.
So, they spent the night.
The next morning, a strong windstorm suddenly arose.
The hut shook when the serpent landed.
The serpent grabbed a millstone.
The serpent grabbed the stone with the palm of his hand and squeezed it so tightly that it turned into fine sand - a cloud of dust arose from his fist.
There was a chunk of cheese curd on the table, the gypsy grabbed it and really gave it a squeeze.
Whey dripped out onto the ground.
The serpent whistled so loudly that leaves fell from all the trees.
The serpent believed it and covered his eyes with a scarf.
There was nothing to be done - the gypsy went to the meadow.
He saw a large herd of oxen grazing.
He started to tie them together by their tails.
The serpent waited and waited and couldn't wait any longer.
He ran out to the meadow to see what was going on.
Then the serpent grabbed the biggest oxen by the tale, ripped off the hide, shouldered the meat and dragged it home.
They returned to the hut, and set up two cauldrons for the beef, but there was no water.
The gypsy grabbed the hide and dragged it to the well.
Completely empty he could barely drag it, to say nothing of it when filled with water.
He got to the well and started to dig a deep trench around it.
The serpent again waited and waited and couldn't wait any longer.
He ran out to see for himself what was taking so long.
The serpent dropped the hide into the well, filled it with water, dragged it out and carried it home.
The gypsy went into the forest and pulled out bark fiber to twist into a rope.
He braided an extremely long rope and set to wrapping up the oak trees.
The serpent waited and waited and couldn't wait any longer.
He ran out to see for himself what was taking so long.
The gypsy pretended like he was extremely angry.
Pouting, he sat silently.
The serpent cooked the beef, and called the gypsy to lunch.
Right away, the serpent got his wagon, harnessed three of the best stallions, and they left together for the gypsy camp.
They were just approaching, when the little gypsy children saw their father.
Barely dressed, they ran to meet him.
The serpent jumped out of the wagon and ran away.
The gypsy sold the trio of horses with the wagon and began to live the good life.
