In a certain village there lived a wealthy peasant and his wife.
One day the wife went to the forest for mushrooms, lost her way, and stumbled into a bear's den.
The bear kept her with him, and after some time, a long time or a short time, she had a son by him.
This son was a man down to the waist and a bear below the waist; his mother called him Ivanko the Bearlet.
Years went by, and when Ivan grew up he wanted to go away with his mother and live with the peasants in the village; they waited until the bear went to a beehive, made ready, and ran away.
They ran and ran and finally came to their own village.
The peasant saw his wife and was overjoyed - he had given up hope that she would ever return.
His wife told him all that had happened, how she had lived in the bear's den and had a son by him and that this son was human to the waist and a bear from the waist down.
Ivanko the Bearlet took a knife, went out to the yard, and called the sheep; all of them began to stare at him.
He forthwith slaughtered them all, skinned them, and went to ask the peasant where he should store the skins and the meat.
It so happened that on that night a storm broke and the rain fell in buckets.
Ivanko the Bearlet broke the door off the barn, took it into the bath house, and spent the night there.
Thieves took advantage of the darkness; they found the barn open and without a guard, so they took whatever they pleased.
Next morning the peasant arose, went to see whether everything was in order, and found that nothing was left: what the thieves had not taken, the dogs had eaten up.
He looked for the guard, found him in the bath house, and began to chide him even more severely than the first time.
Then he hit upon an idea; the next day he sent Ivanko to the lake and told him to wind ropes of sand.
Ivanko the Bearlet went to the lake, sat on the shore, and began to wind ropes of sand.
The hare darted off into the open field like mad and in a trice vanished from sight; the devil rushed after him, but it was of no use - he was half a verst behind.
The devil threw the crutch so high that it was hardly visible; it fell back with a terrible rumble and thrust half its length into the ground.
The Bearlet took the crutch in his hand and could not even move it.
He snatched the crutch and rushed into the water.
The devil heaved the horse on to his back and dragged it around the lake; he carried it ten times, till he was exhausted and sweat streamed down his snout.
He mounted the horse and began to ride around the lake; he rode so long that finally the horse collapsed under him.
The little devil ran to fetch the gold; Ivanko cut the bottom out of his hat and placed it above a deep pit; the devil kept bringing gold and pouring it into the hat.
He worked at this for a whole day and only by evening was the hat filled.
