There was once a king who had three daughters, and such beauties they were as no tongue can tell of nor pen describe.
Their garden was big and beautiful and they liked to walk there at night.
A dragon from the Black Sea took to visiting this garden.
One night the king's daughters tarried in the garden, for they could not tear their eyes away from the flowers; suddenly the dragon appeared and carried them off on his fiery wings.
The king waited and waited but his daughters did not come back.
He sent his maidservants to look for them in the garden, but all in vain; the maidservants could not find the princesses.
The next morning the king proclaimed a state of emergency and a great multitude of people gathered.
Three men agreed to undertake this task - a soldier who was a drunkard, Frolka Stay-at-Home, and Erema; and they set out to look for the princesses.
They walked and walked till they came to a deep forest.
As soon as they entered it they were overwhelmed by drowsiness.
So they went on; they walked and walked and finally came to an enormous house, and in that house was a five-headed dragon.
For a long time they knocked at the gate, but no one answered.
He snuffed up some tobacco and gave such a knock at the gate that he smashed it.
They entered the yard, sat in a circle, and were about to eat whatever they had.
They moved apart, faced each other, and clashed, and in one stroke Frolka cut off all the five heads of the dragon.
Then he put them under a stone and buried the body in the ground.
She said that she was the king's eldest daughter; Frolka told her what task he had undertaken, and they were both glad.
The princess invited them into the house, gave them meat and drink, and begged them to rescue her sisters.
The princess told them where her sisters were.
They said farewell and went on.
Finally they came to the abode of the second sister.
The house where she was locked up was enormous and all around it there was a high iron fence.
They approached it and looked for the gate; finally they found it.
Frolka banged upon the gate with all his strength and it opened; they entered the yard and, as they had done before, sat down to eat.
Suddenly the seven-headed dragon came flying.
He began to fight with the dragon and in one stroke cut off all seven of his heads, put them under a stone, and buried the body in the ground.
Then they entered the house; they passed through one room, a second, and a third, and in the fourth they found the king's second daughter sitting on a sofa.
When they told her why and how they had come there, she brightened, offered them food and drink, and begged them to rescue her youngest sister from the twelve-headed dragon.
They drank and left; they walked and walked till they came to a very steep ravine.
On the other side of the ravine there stood enormous pillars instead of a gate, and on the pillars were chained two ferocious lions that roared so loudly that only Frolka remained standing on his feet; his two companions fell to the ground from fear.
And they went on.
The old man went up to the lions and began to stroke them, and Frolka with his companions got through to the courtyard.
They entered the castle; the old man brought them to the room where the princess lived.
Upon seeing them she quickly jumped off her bed and began to question them as to who they were and why they had come.
They told her.
The princess offered them food and drink and began to make ready to go.
As they were preparing to leave the house, they suddenly saw the dragon flying at a verst's distance from them.
The king's daughter rushed back into the house and Frolka and his companions went out to meet and fight the dragon.
At first the dragon attacked them with great force, but Frolka, a clever fellow, managed to defeat him, cut off all of his twelve heads, and cast them into the ravine.
Then they returned to the house and in their joy reveled even more than before.
Following this feast they set out on their way, stopping only for the other princesses.
Thus they all came back to their native land.
Frolka was generous: he brought his big three-flapped cap, the soldier brought his knapsack, and Erema brought a basket.
Frolka began to fill his cap first: he poured and poured, the cap broke, and the silver fell into the mud.
Frolka began to pour again; he poured, and the money dropped from the cap!
While there was still money, Erema began to fill his basket, and the soldier his knapsack; having done this, they went home.
But Frolka remained near the royal treasury with his cap and to this very day he is still sitting there, pouring out money for himself.
