So his mother put a white shirt on him, tied a red girdle round him, and let him go.
Then the canoe floated on farther and farther, and Ivashko began to fish.
The boat floated to the shore: the woman took the fish, gave her boy food and drink, changed his shirt for him and his girdle, and sent him back to his fishing.
Then the canoe floated on farther and farther, and Ivashko began to fish.
The canoe floated to the shore.
The old man took the fish, gave his boy food and drink, changed his shirt for him and his girdle, and sent him back to his fishing.
Now a certain witch had heard what Ivashko's parents had cried aloud to him, and she longed to get hold of the boy.
The witch saw that she must call Ivashko with just such a voice as his mother had.
So the smith forged her a little voice just like Ivashko's mother's.
Ivashko came, and she took the fish, and seized the boy and carried him home with her.
But the moment she sat down on the shovel, Ivashko instantly pitched her into the oven, slammed to the iron plate in front of it, ran out of the hut, shut the door, and hurriedly climbed up ever so high an oak-tree (which stood close by).
Presently the witch arrived with her guests and knocked at the door of the hut.
But nobody opened it for her.
Then she slipped in through the window, opened the door, and let in her guests.
They all sat down to table, and the witch opened the oven, took out Alenka's baked body, and served it up.
They all ate their fill and drank their fill, and then they went out into the courtyard and began rolling about on the grass.
Then the witch looked up and saw Ivashko, and immediately rushed at the oak on which Ivashko was seated, and began to gnaw away at it.
And she gnawed, and gnawed, and gnawed, until at last she smashed two front teeth.
So the smith forged her two iron teeth.
The witch returned and began gnawing the oak again.
She gnawed, and gnawed, and was just on the point of gnawing it through, when Ivashko jumped out of it into another tree which stood beside it.
The oak that the witch had gnawed through fell down to the ground ; but then she saw that Ivashko was sitting up in another tree, so she gnashed her teeth with spite and set to work afresh, to gnaw that tree also.
She gnawed, and gnawed, and gnawed - broke two lower teeth, and ran off to the forge.
The smith forged two more iron teeth for her.
She went back again, and once more began to gnaw the oak.
Ivashko didn't know what he was to do now.
Again Ivashko waited.
And those swans and geese took hold of him and carried him back, flew up to the cottage, and dropped him in the upper room.
Early the next morning his mother set to work to bake pancakes, baked them, and all of a sudden fell to thinking about her boy.
The father climbed into the upper room and there he found Ivashko.
The old people were delighted, and asked their boy about everything that had happened.
And after that he and they lived on happily together.
