Once , in a far away land , there was a man who had seven sons - all by the name of Simeon . They were seven lazy , good - for - nothing loafers . They never did a single useful thing . This was unbearable for their father . Eventually , it got to the point that he simply brought all seven Simeons to the czar and enlisted them in his service . The czar was grateful to the father for bringing him so many fine , able men . After the fifth Simeon , he questioned the sixth . Then he dismissed them all . After some time passed , the czar remembering the seven Simeons , decided to put one of their skills to use . They checked his statements with the newspapers and found he was exactly right ! After another long period passed , the czar decided to marry a certain princess . He just did n't know ; there was no one suitable for the job . Then he remembered the seven Simeons . Summoning them , he commissioned them as soldiers , with the assignment to bring him that princess . The Simeons quickly convened . As expert craftsmen they , slam - bam , built a boat , boarded and sailed off to the kingdom of the bride - to - be - princess . One , looking from the high mast , said the princess was currently alone and so vulnerable . The maker of valuables went with his brother , the thief , to sell his wares in the palace . They barely arrived when the thief stole the princess . They immediately cut anchor and set sail . When the princess realized they were carrying her away , she turned into a white swan and flew from the boat . The marksman , without delay , grabbed his gun and fired a shot into her left wing . Simeon number four darted into the water , retrieved the swan , as any good dog would , bringing her back to the boat . The swan turned back into a princess , but her left arm was still injured . Healer Simeon immediately cured the princess ' arm . With their healthy and successful return to their own kingdom , the Simeons fired a round from the cannon . The czar heard it , but had already forgotten about the Simeons . Whether somebody ran or rode , they quickly returned with news concerning the seven Simeons and the czar 's future bride . The czar rejoiced in the Simeons ' success and commanded they be met with honor , cannon - fire , and the beating of drums . Only the princess did n't want marry the czar . He was already too old ! Therefore , he asked her who she wanted to marry . Afterall , the thief was a dashing fellow whose nobility appealed to the princess . The czar , without another word , ordered them to be married . Years later , he wanted some peace and quiet , so he placed Simeon the Thief on the throne , and made all of his brothers great noblemen .
