Once upon a time there was an old couple , and they had three Sons . Two of these had their wits about them , but the third was a simpleton , Ivan by name , surnamed Popyalof . For twelve whole years Ivan lay among the ashes from the stove ; but then he arose , and shook himself , so that six poods of ashes fell off from him . Now in the land in which Ivan lived there was never any day , but always night . That was a Snake 's doing . And when he had got the mace , he went out into the fields , and flung it straight up in the air , and then he went home . The next day he went out into the fields to the spot from which he had flung the mace on high , and stood there with his head thrown back . So when the mace fell down again it hit him on the forehead . And the mace broke in two . And when he had got it he went out into the fields , and flung it aloft . And the mace went flying through the air for three days and three nights . On the fourth day Ivan went out to the same spot , and when the mace came tumbling down , he put his knee in the way , and the mace broke over it into three pieces . Ivan went home and told his father to make him a third mace , one of fifteen poods weight . And when he had got it , he went out into the fields and flung it aloft . And the mace was up in the air six days . On the seventh Ivan went to the same spot as before . Down fell the mace , and when it struck Ivan 's forehead , the forehead bowed under it . So when he had got everything ready , he went forth with his brothers to fight the Snake . He rode and rode , and presently there stood before him a hut on fowl 's legs , and in that hut lived the Snake . There all the party came to a standstill . When he had said this he went into the hut and sat down under the boarding . Presently there rode up a Snake with three heads . His steed stumbled , his hound howled , his falcon clamored . Ivan came forth , and they began to fight . And Ivan killed the Snake , and then sat down again beneath the boarding . Presently there came another Snake , a six - headed one , and him , too , Ivan killed . And then there came a third , which had twelve heads . Well , Ivan began to fight with him , and lopped off nine of his heads . The Snake had no strength left in him . And the Raven gave ear to what Ivan said , and flew to his brothers and began to croak above their heads . The brothers awoke , and when they heard the cry of the Raven , they hastened to their brother 's aid . And they killed the Snake , and then , having taken his heads , they went into his hut and destroyed them . And immediately there was bright light throughout the whole land . After killing the Snake , Ivan Popyalof and his brothers set off on their way home . But he had forgotten to take away his gloves , so he went back to fetch them , telling his brothers to wait for him meanwhile . Now when he had reached the hut and was going to take away his gloves , he heard the voices of the Snake 's wife and daughters , who were talking with each other . So he turned himself into a cat , and began to mew outside the door . They let him in , and he listened to everything they said . Then he got his gloves and hastened away . As soon as he came to where his brothers were , he mounted his horse , and they all started afresh . They rode and rode ; presently they saw before them a green meadow , and on that meadow lay silken cushions . And out of those cushions there streamed blood . So they all went on further . They rode and rode ; presently there stood before them an apple - tree , and upon it were gold and silver apples . And out of the tree streamed blood . So they went on further . They rode and rode , and by and by they saw a spring in front of them . For the meadow , the silken cushions , the apple - tree , and the spring , were all of them daughters of the Snake . After killing the Snake 's daughters , Ivan and his brothers went on homewards . Presently came the Snake 's Wife flying after them , and she opened her jaws from the sky to the earth , and tried to swallow up Ivan . But Ivan and his brothers threw three poods of salt into her mouth . She swallowed the salt , thinking it was Ivan Popyalof , but afterwards - when she had tasted the salt , and found out it was not Ivan - she flew after him again . Then he perceived that danger was at hand , and so he let his horse go free , and hid himself behind twelve doors in the forge of Kuzma and Demian . So the Snake 's Wife began licking the doors . But meanwhile they all heated iron pincers , and as soon as she had sent her tongue through into the smithy , they caught tight hold of her by the tongue , and began thumping her with hammers . And when the Snake 's Wife was dead they consumed her with fire , and scattered her ashes to the winds . And then they went home , and there they lived and enjoyed themselves , feasting and revelling , and drinking mead and wine .
