There was once an old princess ; she had a son and a daughter , both well built , both handsome . A wicked witch disliked them ; she pondered and pondered as to how she could lead them into evil ways and destroy them . In the end she conceived a plan . The old woman believed her and was overjoyed ; before her death she enjoined upon her son that he take to wife a woman whom the ring would be found to fit . Time went by and the little son grew up . He grew up and began to seek a bride ; he would like one girl , then another , but upon trying the ring he always found it to be too big or too small ; it did not fit either the one or the other . He traveled and traveled through villages and cities , tried the ring on all the lovely maidens , but could not find one whom he could take as his betrothed ; he returned home and was pensive and sad . He told her his trouble . She put it on her finger and the ring clasped it , and began to gleam ; it fitted her as though made to her size . But her brother did not heed her ; he danced for joy and ordered that preparations be made for the wedding . The sister burst into bitter tears , went out of her room , sat on the threshold , and wept and wept . Some old women passed by ; she invited them in and offered them food and drink . They asked her what her grief was , why she was sad . It was of no use to hide it ; she told them everything . The old women left . The earth began to open , the sister began to fall in. Only the sister 's head was still above ground . The dolls cuckooed , and she vanished into the earth . The brother called her , he called her again in a louder voice , but she did not come . He ran to her room , banged at the door , and the door broke . He looked everywhere , but his sister was gone . He seized an ax , cut off their heads , and threw them into the stove . The sister walked and walked underground and saw a little hut on chicken legs , turning round and round . The little hut stood still and the door opened . Inside sat a lovely maiden embroidering a towel with silver and gold . The guest was frightened by these words , but she had nowhere to go , so she sat with her hostess at the embroidery frame ; they embroidered the towel and talked together . After a long time or a short time , when the hostess knew that her mother was about to come - for she knew the time - she turned her guest into a needle , thrust the needle into a birch broom , and put the broom in a corner . She had no sooner done all this than the witch appeared at the door . She left ; the maidens sat at the frame , embroidered the towel , talked and laughed together . The witch came flying home ; she sniffed about in the house . The witch was hungry ; she chided her daughter , and flew away again . The guest had been sitting in the broom . They hastened to finish embroidering the towel ; while working thus hurriedly they planned how to escape from their trouble and run away from the wicked witch . The maiden looked at the witch and her heart failed her . They brought wood , oak and maple , and made a fire ; the flame blazed forth from the stove . The maiden changed her posture , sat the right way ; the witch tried to shove her in , but she put one leg into the stove and the other under it . " Sit quietly , this way - just see how I do it . " She plumped herself on the shovel and stretched out her legs , and the two maidens quickly shoved her into the stove , locked her in , covered her up with logs , plastered and tarred the opening , and then ran away , taking the embroidered towel and a brush and comb with them . They threw down the brush and there appeared a marsh thickly overgrown with reeds . They threw down the comb , and there appeared a dark , thick forest : not even a fly could fly through it . The witch sharpened her teeth and set to work : each time she clamped her teeth she bit off a tree by its roots . She hurled the trees to one side , cleared a path , and again came close - very close . The maidens ran and ran till they could run no longer ; they had lost all their strength . They threw down the gold - embroidered towel , and there spread before them a sea , wide and deep , a sea of fire . The witch soared high ; she wanted to fly across the sea , but fell into the fire and was burned . The maidens remained alone , little doves without a home ; they did not know where to go . They sat down to rest . The master went to see them and invited them to his home . He saw that his sister was there , but which of the two she was he could not guess - his servant had told the truth . They did what they had planned ; the servant struck his master in the side and blood gushed forth .
