There was once a very wealthy merchant who had a marvelously beautiful daughter . This merchant carried goods to various provinces , and one day he came to a certain kingdom and brought precious cloths to the king as a gift . The king immediately wrote a letter and called his guards . The merchant 's daughter took the letter , burst into tears , and prepared to go , taking also her maidservant ; and no one could distinguish this maid from the merchant 's daughter , they were so like each other . They dressed in dresses that were alike and went to the king for the marriage . They went to the island ; there the maidservant gave the merchant 's daughter sleeping potions , cut out her eyes , and put them in her pocket . They went to the king ; he married the maid at once , and they began to live together . Meanwhile the merchant 's daughter recovered from the illness that her maid had brought upon her . She could not see ; she could only hear and she heard an old man tending cattle . The old man took her in. He heeded her and drove away the cattle . The old man went ; none of the wealthy merchants would give him goods on credit but a poor shopkeeper gave him some . He brought the velvet and silk to the blind maiden . And she began to sew a royal crown of velvet and silk ; she embroidered such a beautiful crown that it was a pleasure to behold it . The old man went to the palace with the crown . Everyone admired it and wanted to buy it from him , but the old man asked for an eye in payment . Straightway the king was told that he was asking for an eye . The king came out , was delighted with the crown , and began to bargain for it , but the old man still asked for an eye . The king began to curse and threatened to put him in prison ; but no matter what the king said , the old man held his ground . Just then his wife , the queen , rushed out , took an eye from her pocket , and gave it to the king . The king was overjoyed . She took it from him , went outside at twilight , spat upon it , put it into its socket , and was able to see once more . Then again she sent the old man to the shops , giving him money , and asked him to pay what he owed for the silk and velvet and to bring more velvet and gold thread . He got what he needed from the poor shopkeeper and brought these things to the merchant 's daughter . She sat down to sew another crown , finished it , and sent the old man to the same king . The old man came to the palace . There everyone was amazed , for although the first crown was beautiful , the second was even lovelier . The king at once ordered a guard to cut away an eye from a prisoner ; but his wife again gave him an eye . And he left the palace . He came to his hut and gave the eye to the blind maiden . She again went outside at twilight , spat on the eye , put it in its socket , and could see with both eyes . She lay down to sleep in the hut , but upon awakening she suddenly found herself in a glass house and began to live in magnificent style . The king went to see this marvel , wondering who had built such a fine house . He drove into the yard and the merchant 's daughter was delighted . She received him hospitably and bade him sit down at table . He feasted there and upon leaving asked the maiden to come to see him . The king again went to visit the maiden , and the queen was full of spite . The king came , feasted , and invited her to his palace . The old man wept for her . Soon the guards came , seated her in a carriage , and drove away . They brought her to the king 's palace , and the queen did not even look at her ; she wanted to shoot her on the spot . They cut her in pieces , took out her heart , buried her in the ground , and returned to the palace . The queen came out to meet them , took the heart , rolled it up into an egg , and put it in her pocket . The old man went to sleep in a glass house but awoke in a hut and burst into tears . He wept and wept , then he set about his appointed task . He made a coffin and went to seek the maiden ; he found her in the earth , dug her up , gathered all the pieces , put them in the coffin , and buried them in his own land . The king did not know of all this , so he went again to visit the merchant 's daughter . When he arrived at the place , there was no house , no maiden ; but at the spot where she was buried a garden had grown . They came to the garden and began to cut it but it turned into stone . The king longed to see the garden again and went to that place . When he came he beheld a boy there - and what a handsome boy he was ! Meanwhile the boy began to cry and there was no way of appeasing him : no matter what they gave him , he kept on crying . Then the queen took from her pocket the egg she had made from the maiden 's heart and gave it to the boy ; he ceased crying and began to skip around the rooms . The boy ran to the yard and the king ran after him ; the boy ran into the street and the king ran into the street ; the boy ran to the field and the king ran to the field ; the boy ran to the garden and the king ran to the garden . There the king saw the maiden and was overjoyed . They went to the palace . The queen fell at her feet . The maidservant 's eyes were cut out , she was tied to a horse , and dragged to her death over the open field . And the king began to live happily with the young queen and to prosper . The king always delighted in her and dressed her in gold .
