In a certain kingdom there was a king who had three daughters of surpassing beauty . The king guarded them more carefully than his most precious treasure ; he built underground chambers and kept his daughters there like birds in a cage , so that rough winds could not blow upon them nor the red sun scorch them with his rays . The king tried to dissuade them but to no avail . They would not even listen to him ; the more he refused , the more urgently they besought him . There was nothing to be done , so the king granted their insistent prayer . And so the beautiful princesses went out to walk in the garden . They beheld the red sun , the trees , and the flowers , and were overjoyed that they had the freedom of the bright world . They ran about in the garden and enjoyed themselves - when a sudden whirlwind seized them and carried them off far and high , no one knew whither . The alarmed nurses and governesses ran to report this to the king ; the king straightway sent his faithful servants in all directions , promising a great reward to him who should find traces of the princesses . The servants traveled and traveled but did not discover anything and came back no wiser than they had set out . The king called his grand council together and asked his councilors and boyars whether anyone among them would undertake to search for his daughters . To any man who might find them , he said , he would give the princess of his choice in marriage , and a rich dowry . The king asked once and the boyars were silent ; he asked a second time and they still did not answer ; he asked a third time and no one made a sound ! The king burst into tears . He hoped that someone from among the common people would undertake the heavy task . At that time there lived in one village a poor widow who had three sons ; they were mighty champions . All of them were born in one night - the eldest in the evening , the second at midnight , and the youngest in the early dawn , and therefore they were called Evening , Midnight , and Dawn . When the king 's call reached them , they straightway asked for their mother 's blessing , made ready for their journey , and rode to the capital city . The king took the old woman into his palace , and ordered that she be given food and drink from his table and clothes and shoes from his stores . The good youths set out on their way . They rode one month , a second , and a third ; then they came to a wide desert steppe . Beyond that steppe was a thick forest , and close to the forest stood a little hut . They knocked at the window and there was no answer ; they entered and no one was in the hut . They undressed , prayed to God , and went to sleep . The eldest brother consented . Near the hut there was a shed full of sheep ; without thinking much he took the best ram , slaughtered and cleaned it , and put it onto roast for dinner . He prepared everything and lay down to rest on a bench . Suddenly there was a rumbling noise , the door opened , and there entered a little man as big as a thumb , with a beard a cubit long . He snatched up a crust of bread and began to beat Evening on the head with it ; he beat him till he was half dead and threw him under the bench . Then the little old man ate the roasted ram and went into the woods . Evening tied a rag around his head and lay moaning . Next day Dawn and Evening went hunting , and Midnight was left at home to prepare the dinner . Midnight made a fire , chose the fattest ram , slaughtered it , and put it in the oven ; then he lay on the bench . Suddenly there was a rumbling noise , and the old man as big as a thumb , with a beard a cubit long , came in and began to beat and thrash him ; he almost beat him to death . Then he ate the roasted ram and went into the woods . Midnight tied up his head with a handkerchief and lay under the bench and moaned . The brothers returned . On the third day the two elder brothers went hunting and Dawn stayed at home ; he chose the best ram , slaughtered and cleaned it , and put it on to roast . Then he lay on the bench . Suddenly there was a rumbling noise - and he saw the old man as big as a thumb , with a beard a cubit long , carrying a whole hayrick on his head and holding a huge cask of water in his hand . The little old man put down the cask of water , spread the hay over the yard , and began to count his sheep . Dawn dragged him out into the yard , led him to an oaken pillar , and fastened his beard to the pillar with a big iron spike ; then he returned to the house and sat down to wait for his brothers . The brothers came back from their hunting and were amazed to find him safe and sound . They went into the yard , they looked - but the old man as big as a thumb had long since run away . But half of his beard dangled from the pillar , and blood was spattered over his tracks . Following this clue , the brothers came to a deep hole in the ground . Dawn went to the woods , gathered lime bast , wound a rope , and told his brothers to drop him underground . Evening and Midnight dropped him into the hole . He found himself in the other world , released himself from the rope , and walked straight ahead . He walked and walked , and saw a copper castle . She straightway seated him at the table , gave him meat and drink , and then handed him a phial with the water of strength . Dawn drank the phial of water and felt great power in himself . At this moment a wild wind arose , and the princess was frightened . And she took Dawn by his hand and hid him in the adjoining room . The dragon asked for food and drink ; the princess brought him a variety of meats and drink and poured a sleeping potion into the wine . The dragon ate and drank his fill and was soon overwhelmed by drowsiness ; he made the princess pick the lice from his hair , lay on her knees , and fell sound asleep . The princess called Dawn . He came forth , swung his sword , and cut off all of the dragon 's three heads ; then he made a bonfire , burned the foul dragon and scattered his ashes in the open field . He walked and walked , and came to a silver castle ; in that castle lived the second princess . Dawn killed a six - headed dragon there and went on . After a long time or a short time , he reached a golden castle , and in that castle lived the eldest princess ; Dawn killed a twelve - headed dragon and freed that princess from captivity . The princess was overjoyed , made ready to return home , went out into the wide courtyard , waved a red handkerchief , and the golden kingdom rolled up into an egg ; she took the egg , put it in her pocket , and went with Dawn to seek her sisters . These princesses did the same thing : they rolled up their kingdoms into eggs , took them , and all of them went to the hole . Evening and Midnight pulled their brother and the three princesses out into the bright world . They all came together to their own land ; the princesses rolled their eggs into the open field , and straightway three kingdoms appeared , a copper , a silver and a golden one . The king was more overjoyed than any tongue can tell ; he immediately married Dawn , Evening , and Midnight to his daughters , and at his death made Dawn his heir .
