An old man lived with his old wife ; they had a daughter and a little son . The parents went away and the daughter forgot what they had told her ; she put her brother on the grass beneath the window , ran out into the street , and became absorbed in games . Some magic swan geese came , seized the little boy , and carried him off on their wings . The girl came back and found her brother gone . She gasped , and rushed to look in every corner , but could not find him . She called him , wept , and lamented that her father and mother would scold her severely ; still her little brother did not answer . She ran into the open field ; the swan geese flashed in the distance and vanished behind a dark forest . The swan geese had long had a bad reputation ; they had done a great deal of damage and stolen many little children . The girl guessed that they had carried off her brother , and rushed after them . She ran and ran and saw a stove . The stove did not tell her . She ran farther and saw an apple tree . She ran farther and saw a river of milk with shores of pudding . She ran and saw a little hut that stood on chicken legs and turned round and round . In the little hut lay Baba Yaga with veined snout and clay legs , and the little brother was sitting on a bench , playing with golden apples . His sister saw him , crept near him , seized him , and carried him away . There flowed the river of milk with shores of pudding . There was nothing to be done ; she ate it , and the river hid her beneath the shore , and the geese flew by. There was the apple tree . She ate it quickly . The apple tree covered her with branches and leaves ; the geese flew by. She went out again and ran on with her brother . The geese saw her and flew after her . They came quite close , they began to strike her with their wings ; at any moment they would tear her brother from her hands . Luckily there was the stove on her path . The girl quickly stuck the cake in her mouth , went into the stove , and sat there . The geese whirred and whirred , quacked and quacked , and finally flew away without recovering their prey . And the girl ran home , and it was a good thing that she came when she did , for soon afterward her mother and father arrived .
