In a certain kingdom in a certain land there lived a king who had three sons . The father gave them his blessing and they set out in different directions . The youngest son rode and rode and lost his way ; he came to a clearing , and there lay a dead horse , around which were gathered beasts of many kinds , birds , and reptiles . The prince climbed down from his good steed and divided the carcass : he gave the bones to the beasts , the flesh to the birds , the skin to the reptiles , and the head to the ants . Prince Ivan struck the damp earth , turned into a bright falcon , soared up into the air , and flew to the thrice tenth kingdom . More than half of that kingdom had been swallowed into a crystal mountain . Thus he entered the service of that king and lived in his palace for one week , then a second , then a third . The king gave her leave . They mounted good steeds and set out . When they approached the crystal mountain , a golden goat jumped suddenly out from nowhere . The prince chased it ; he galloped and galloped , but could not catch the goat , and when he returned the princess had vanished . Prince Ivan drove his herd over mountains and valleys . The dragon flew into a rage , and instead of three cows , seized six . Prince Ivan straightway turned into a bright falcon , cut off all the three heads of the dragon , and drove the cattle home . Next day the prince drove his herd over mountains and valleys , and the six - headed dragon came from the lake and demanded six cows . The dragon flew into a rage and instead of six , seized twelve cows ; but the prince turned into a bright falcon , fell upon the dragon , and cut off his six heads . Late at night Prince Ivan turned into an ant and crawled into the crystal mountain through a little crack . Lo and behold , the princess was in the crystal mountain . Prince Ivan crawled out of the mountain , turned again into a herdsman , and drove his herd . They began to fight , and after a long struggle or a short struggle , Prince Ivan defeated the twelve - headed dragon , slashed open his trunk , and found the coffer in his right side . In the coffer he found a hare , in the hare a duck , in the duck an egg , in the egg a seed . He took the seed , set it alight , and brought it to the crystal mountain , which soon melted away . The wedding was held at once .
