So Shabarsha set off to work as a laborer , and times were bad . There was no grain at all , and the vegetables did n't grow . But one owner thought , a deep thought . And Shabarsha set off for the millpond . He asked the miller for a handful of hemp , sat down on the shore , and started weaving his tackle . He wove and wove , and then a boy in a black shirt and red hat jumped out of the water . The imp dove deep down and Shabarsha went back to his work . And Shabarsha began digging a pit and when he had dug it , he placed his hat with a cutout hole over it . The imp dove back into the water . The imp went into the ravine , found the bear , and whacked him in the side with his club . Misha rose up on his hind legs and grabbed the imp so that all his bones cracked . He forced himself out of the bear 's claws and ran to the old man in the water . So the boy in the red hat once more came up to Shabarsha . The imp ran up to Bunny , touched him on the ear , and the hare jumped up with the imp right behind him . The imp whistled so loudly that Shabarsha could hardly stand on his own two feet and the leaves started falling off the trees . The imp lay face down on the ground and stuck his fingers in his ears . Shabarsha took his club and with all his might he whacked him on the neck and whistled . He whistled on and on . The imp took the club , put it on his shoulder , and set off for Shabarsha . The devil threw the club and it flew higher and higher until it was just a black dot in the sky. They waited impatiently for it to come back to earth . Then Shabarsha took the club - it was heavy ! He stood it on the toes of one foot , leaned on it with his palm , and began gazing at the sky. The devil grabbed the club and dove back to his grandfather . The grandfather heard from his grandson that Shabarsha had nearly thrown his club out of sight and he got seriously afraid and ordered them to drag the money out of the pool and buy him off . The imp dragged up more and more money ; he dragged out a whole lot , but the hat still was n't full . Then there was nothing else to do so the imp started with the secret chest and began filling Shabarsha 's hat . He poured and poured it in , until finally he had filled it . And since then , since that time , the laborer has lived in glory .
