This soldier got permission to go on leave . He got ready and set off along the way . He walked and walked , but nowhere did he see any water and he wanted to wet his hardtack and eat a little along the way and road . His belly had long since been empty . There was nothing to be done and so he dragged himself on a bit further . Then he looked and saw a creek running . He went up to this creek and got three biscuits out of his pack and put them in the water . Besides the hardtack the soldier had this fiddle . In his free time he played various songs to chase away his boredom . So the soldier sat down next to the stream and began playing . Suddenly out of nowhere the Unclean One with the appearance of an old man came up to him with a book in his hands . The soldier opened up the book and started reading , just as if he had done so from his early years . He was delighted and immediately handed over his fiddle . The Unclean One took it and began working at it with the bow , but no way did things go right ! He could n't make it play anything at all . He took the hardtack out of the stream as he wanted to eat something . The soldier ate and drank his fill and then he agreed to stay on and teach this unknown old man how to play the fiddle . He stayed with him for three days and then he asked to go home . The devil led him outside and there before the porch stood a troika of fine horses . He got there in nothing flat . The soldier got down from the cart , went in to his relatives , and they all exchanged greetings and asked about each other , for how long and when he had been given leave , It seemed to him that he had been with the Unclean One for no more than three days but in fact it had been three years . His leave had long since finished and he was considered a runaway in his regiment . The soldier became timid . He did n't know what to do . His stupidity simply would n't leave him . He had no sooner spoken these words than the Unclean One was there . So our merchant lived and worried about nothing . Happiness just tumbled onto his household . And in his trading he had just one task : to become even more prosperous . The other merchants became envious , however . The merchants went their separate ways to their own homes . He thought and thought and then he decided to leave his shop and go out of the town that very night . So he took all his money that was to hand and set out for the thrice - ten kingdom . He walked and walked until he came to a barrier . The sentry reported this to the courtiers and the courtiers reported this to the king himself . The king called in the soldier . The soldier waited until evening , bought himself a fiddle , and set off to the princess 's . In her rooms he lit the candles and began drinking and carousing , and playing on his fiddle . At midnight the Unclean One came , heard the music , and rushed to the soldier . But he brought him a full glass of the strong spirits . The devil drank it all and his eyes popped right out on his forehead . The devil chewed and chewed , but he just broke his teeth . Then they started playing cards . Meanwhile , time passed , the cocks crowed , and the Unclean One disappeared . The next night passed the same way . At deepest midnight the Unclean One appeared . They started drinking and carousing . The devil put both hands in the pincers and the soldier squeezed them . Then he picked up the rods and let the devil have it ! But he kept on flogging him . The devil hopped and hopped . He twisted and twisted . When he had said this , he disappeared . So the soldier married the princess and lived with her in love and harmony , and then after several years the king died and he began ruling the entire tsardom . Once the new king and his wife went into the garden to walk . The king got ready and drove there with the queen .
