
Shadowing ENTITIES
Shadowing EXPRESSIONS
Shadowing MH
Shadowing GMAP
Shadowing CI
Shadowing AND
Shadowing OR
Shadowing IMPLIES
Initializing SME...
   Loading default language file: sme-language
   Loading default rules file: riu-sme-match.rules
Complete.3
mapping: 
(8.318442
 ((E4 E21) (M5859 M5105) (M5855 M5098) (E3 E18) (E5 E19) (EXTRA0 EXTRA4)
  (M5848 M5081) (E7 E3) (M5849 M5087) (M5862 M5078) (E6 E6)))


There once lived an old couple who had one son called Ivashko ; one can tell how fond they were of him ! 
Well , one day , Ivashkosaid to his father and mother : ' I'll go out fishing if you 'll let me. ' 
' What are you thinking about ! 
you 're still very small ; suppose you get drowned , what good will there be in that ? ' 
' No , no , I sha n't get drowned . 
I 'll catch you some fish ; do let me go ! ' 
So his his motherput a white shirt on him, tied a red girdle round him, and let him go . 
Out in a boat hesat and said : Canoe , canoe , float a little farther , Canoe , canoe, float a little farther ! 
Then the canoe floated on farther and farther , and Ivashko began to fish . 
When some little time had passed by , the old womanhobbled down to the river side and called to her her son: Ivashechko, Ivashechko, my boyIvashechko, my boyup , float up unto the waterside ; Ibring theefood and drink . 
And Ivashkosaid : Canoe , canoe, float to the waterside ; That is my my mothercalling me. 
The boat floated to the shore : the womantook the fish , gave her her boyfood and drink , changed his shirt for him and his girdle , and sent himback to his fishing . 
Again hesat in his boat and said : Canoe , canoe , float a little farther , Canoe , canoe, float a little farther . 
Then the canoe floated on farther and farther , and Ivashko began to fish . 
After a little time had passed by , the old man also hobbled down to the bank and called to his son : Ivashechko, Ivashechko, my boyIvashechko, my boyup , float up , onto the waterside ; Ibring theefood and drink . 
And Ivashkoreplied : Canoe , canoe , float to the waterside ; That is my my fathercalling me. 
The canoe floated to the shore . 
The old mantook the fish , gave his his boyfood and drink , changed his shirt for him and his girdle , and sent himback to his fishing . 
Now a certain witchhad heard what Ivashko's parents had cried aloud to him, and shelonged to get hold of the boy. 
So shewent down to the bank and cried with a hoarse voice : Ivashechko, Ivashechko, my boyIvashechko, my boyup , float up , onto the waterside Ibring theefood and drink . 
Ivashkoperceived that the voice was not his mother 's , but was that of a witch, and hesang : Canoe, canoe , float a little farther , Canoe , canoe , float a little farther ; That is not my mother , but a witch who calls meme. 
The witchsaw that shemust call Ivashkowith just such a voice as his mother had . 
So shehastened to a smithand said to him : ' Smith, smith make mejust such a thin little voice as Ivashko 's mother has : if youdo n't , I'll eat you. ' 
So the smithforged her a little voice just like Ivashko's mother 's . 
Then the witchwent down by night to the shore and sang : Ivashechko, Ivashechko, my boyIvashechko, my boyup , float up , unto the waterside ; Ibring theefood and drink . 
Ivashko came , and shetook the fish , and seized the boyand carried him home with her. 

mapping: 
(6.1364126
 ((E1 E20) (M2457 M5098) (M2456 M5105) (EXTRA0 EXTRA1) (E3 E3) (M2461 M5087)
  (M2460 M5078) (E2 E23)))


There once lived an old couple who had one son called Ivashko ; one can tell how fond they were of him ! 
Well , one day , Ivashkosaid to his father and mother : ' I'll go out fishing if you 'll let me. ' 
' What are you thinking about ! 
you 're still very small ; suppose you get drowned , what good will there be in that ? ' 
' No , no , I sha n't get drowned . 
I 'll catch you some fish ; do let me go ! ' 
So his his motherput a white shirt on him, tied a red girdle round him, and let him go . 
Out in a boat hesat and said : Canoe , canoe , float a little farther , Canoe , canoe, float a little farther ! 
Then the 