
Shadowing ENTITIES
Shadowing EXPRESSIONS
Shadowing MH
Shadowing GMAP
Shadowing CI
Shadowing AND
Shadowing OR
Shadowing IMPLIES
Initializing SME...
   Loading default language file: sme-language
   Loading default rules file: riu-sme-match.rules
Complete.3
mapping: (1.4219999 ((STORY7-EXTRA0 STORY11-EXTRA0) (STORY7-M5965 STORY11-M4097)))


Once upon a time there was an old couple , and they had three Sons . 
Two of these had their wits about them , but the third was a simpleton, Ivan by name, surnamed Popyalof . 
For twelve whole years Ivan lay among the ashes from the stove ; but then he arose , and shook himself , so that six poods of ashes fell off from him . 
Now in the land in which Ivan lived there was never any day , but always night . 
the third walked and walked , but nowhere did the third see any water and the third wanted to wet his hardtack and eat a little along the way and road . 
His belly had long since been empty . 
There was nothing to be done and so the third dragged the third on a bit further . 
Then the third looked and saw a creek running . 
the third went up to this creek and got three biscuits out of his pack and put them in the water . 
Besides the hardtack the third had this fiddle . 
In his free time the third played various songs to chase away his boredom . 
So the third sat down next to the stream and began playing . 
Suddenly out of nowhere the Unclean One with the appearance of an old man came up to the third with a book in his hands . 

WARNING: Dgroup ANALOGY-SOURCE is being defined with no expressions.
 This could be a package problem.mapping: (1.592752 ((STORY17-EXTRA0 STORY11-EXTRA0) (STORY17-M4132 STORY11-M4097)))


Once upon a time there was an old couple , and they had three Sons . 
Two of these had their wits about them , but the third was a simpleton, Ivan by name, surnamed Popyalof . 
For twelve whole years Ivan lay among the ashes from the stove ; but then he arose , and shook himself , so that six poods of ashes fell off from him . 
Now in the land in which Ivan lived there was never any day , but always night . 
The tsar 's word was law . 
the third was banished and the third left home not knowing where to go . 
the third walked for a long time ; at last the third arrived in another kingdom , presented the third to the king , and asked to be taken into his service . 
mapping: (1.4260093 ((STORY1-VERB9 STORY11-VERB1) (STORY1-M1091 STORY11-M4097)))


A dragon appeared near Kiev ; he took heavy tribute from the people - a lovely maiden from every house, whom he then devoured . 
Finally , it was the fate of the third to go to the dragon . 
Once upon a time there was an old couple , and they had three Sons . 
Two of these had their wits about them , but the third was a simpleton, Ivan by name, surnamed Popyalof . 
For twelve whole years Ivan lay among the ashes from the stove ; but then he arose , and shook himself , so that six poods of ashes fell off from him . 
Now in the land in which Ivan lived there was never any day , but always night . 
