
Shadowing ENTITIES
Shadowing EXPRESSIONS
Shadowing MH
Shadowing GMAP
Shadowing CI
Shadowing AND
Shadowing OR
Shadowing IMPLIES
Initializing SME...
   Loading default language file: sme-language
   Loading default rules file: riu-sme-match.rules
Complete.3

WARNING: Dgroup ANALOGY-SOURCE is being defined with no expressions.
 This could be a package problem.mapping: (1.4219999 ((STORY17-EXTRA0 STORY7-EXTRA0) (STORY17-M4132 STORY7-M5965)))


This soldier got permission to go on leave . 
The tsar 's word was law . 
This soldier was banished and This soldier left home not knowing where to go . 
This soldier walked for a long time ; at last This soldier arrived in another kingdom , presented This soldier to the king , and asked to be taken into his service . 
mapping: (1.4219999 ((STORY11-EXTRA0 STORY7-EXTRA0) (STORY11-M4097 STORY7-M5965)))


This soldier got permission to go on leave . 
Well , This soldier undertook to kill that Snake , so This soldier said to his his father , ' Father make This soldier a mace five poods in weight . ' 
mapping: (1.0439999 ((STORY1-EXTRA0 STORY7-EXTRA0) (STORY1-M1088 STORY7-M5965)))


This soldier got permission to go on leave . 
Instead , he took her to wife . 
Whenever he went out , he boarded up his house to prevent the princess from escaping . 
The princess had a little dog that had followed her to the dragon 's lair . 
The princess often wrote to her father and mother . 
She would attach her letter to the dog 's neck , and the dog would take it to them and even bring back the answer . 
One day the tsar and tsarina wrote to their their daughter , asking her to find out who in this world was stronger than the dragon the dragon . 
The princess became kindlier toward the dragon and began to question him . 
For a long time he did not answer , but one day he said inadvertently that a tanner in the city of Kiev the city of Kiev was stronger than he . 
When the princess heard this , she wrote her her father to find Nikita the Tanner in Kiev and to send him to deliver her from captivity . 
Upon receiving this letter , the tsar went in person to beg Nikita the Tanner to free his land from the wicked dragon and rescue the princess . 
