
Shadowing ENTITIES
Shadowing EXPRESSIONS
Shadowing MH
Shadowing GMAP
Shadowing CI
Shadowing AND
Shadowing OR
Shadowing IMPLIES
Initializing SME...
   Loading default language file: sme-language
   Loading default rules file: riu-sme-match.rules
Complete.3
mapping: 
(7.2915287
 ((STORY9-VERB3 STORY16-VERB2) (STORY9-M5078 STORY16-M1174)
  (STORY9-M5081 STORY16-M1621) (STORY9-VERB18 STORY16-VERB4)
  (STORY9-M5105 STORY16-M1201) (STORY9-M5098 STORY16-M1592)
  (STORY9-VERB9 STORY16-VERB3) (STORY9-M5080 STORY16-M1242)
  (STORY9-EXTRA0 STORY16-EXTRA14)))


You know , on the earth , there are good people good people and those who are a little worse those who are a little worse . 
Then there are those who don't fear God and don't even feel shame shame . 
Wee little Havroshechka was left motherless as a small child with the latter type . 
These people took her in and fed her but did n't allow her out into God 's world . 
Rather , they put her to work every day . 
She served , cleaned and answered for all and everything . 
Her Her step-mother had three grown daughters . 
The oldest 's name was One-Eye , the middle daughter 's name was Two-Eye , and the youngest 's name was Three-Eye . 
The only thing they did was sit in the entry way and gaze outside . 
Meanwhile Wee little Havroshechka did their work . 
She sewed their clothes and spun and wove for them , but never heard one word of kindness . 
She was only noticed when they wanted someone to abuse ! 
Once , Wee little Havroshechka went into the field . 
Embracing her her spotted cow , she lay against her neck and related how difficult her life was . 
' Little mother-cow , they beat me and scold me . 
They do n't feed me . 
And then they order me not to cry . 
They gave me 200 pounds of linen to spin , weave , bleach in the sun , and roll . 
It all must be done by tomorrow . ' 
The cow replied , ' Beautiful maiden , climb in one of my ears and climb out the other , and all of your work will be done . ' 
And so it was . 
As soon as the beautiful maiden climbed out of the cow 's ear everything was ready - woven , washed and rolled . 
She carried it to her her step-mother who shut it away in a trunk with a grunt . 
She then gave her even more work to do . 
Havroshechka came again to the cow . 
She climbed in one ear and out the other , carrying the completed things back . 
The old woman was amazed . 
She called One-Eye , ' My My wonderful daughter, my lovely daughter ! 
Find out who helps the orphan the orphan . 
Who weaves, spins and rolls the linen weaves , spins and rolls the linen ? ' 
One-Eye went with the orphan through the forest and into the field . 
She forgot her her mother 's instructions , became fatigued in the sun , and sprawled out in the grass . 
Havroshechka coaxed , ' Sleep , little eye . 
Sleep , little eye ! ' 
One-Eye 's one little eye fell asleep . 
While One-Eye slept , the little cow did the weaving and washing . 
As the step-mother did n't learn anything from One- Eye , she sent Two-Eye . 
Two-Eye also became fatigued in the sun , sprawled out in the grass , forgot her her mother 's instructions , and closed her eyes . 
Havroshechka sang , ' Sleep , little eye . 
Sleep , other little eye ! ' 
The cow did the weaving , washing , and rolling all while Two-Eye 's two eyes slept . 
The old woman was angry . 
On the third day she sent Three-Eye and gave the orphan even more work to do . 
And just like her older sisters , she bounded along and eventually fell into the grass . 
Havroshechka sang , ' Sleep , little eye . 
Sleep , other little eye ! ' 
But she forgot about Three-Eye 's third little eye . 
Two eyes fell asleep , while the third watched and saw everything : from the beautiful maiden climbing in one ear and out the other and then gathering up all the prepared linens . 
Three-Eye told her her mother everything she saw . 
The old woman rejoiced . 
On the very next day she came to her her husband , ' Slaughter that spotted cow ! ' 
The old man was reluctant . 
' What are you saying , woman ? 
Are you out of your mind ? 
That cow is young and healthy ! ' 
But she was absolutely determined . 
So , he sharpened the knife . 
Havroshechka ran to the cow . 
' Little cow-mother ! 
They want to slaughter you . ' 
' Do n't eat my meat , beautiful maiden . 
Gather my bones , tie them in a handkerchief , then plant them in the garden , and never forget me . 
Water my bones every morning . ' 
Havroshechka did everything as the cow instructed . 
She endured great hunger , but still did n't eat any meat . 
She watered the bones in the garden every day , from which an apple tree grew . 
Goodness , what a tree it was ! 
The apples were plump . 
The rustling leaves were golden . 
The bowing branches were silver . 
Whoever rode by stopped to look at the tree . 
Whoever walked by would stare in wonder . 
One day the girls were strolling in the garden when a nobleman rode through the field . 
He was wealthy , handsome , and young . 
Seeing the apples , he got the girls ' attention . 
' Maiden-beauties ! ' 
he said , ' whoever can bring me an apple me an apple will be my my wife . ' 
And so the three sisters pushed themselves in front of each other to get to the apple tree . 
While before the apples hung lower than arm 's height , suddenly they were oh so high , to the point that they were far above their heads . 
The sisters wanted to knock them off the tree , but the leaves blinded them . 
They wanted to pick the apples , but the branches unpicked their braids . 
No matter how they struggled and thrashed about , tearing their hands , they still could n't pick any apples . 
Havroshechka came to the tree . 
The branches bowed down and apples drooped into her reach . 
The nobleman married her . 
They lived in happiness , without any sorrow . 
So Alenka heated the stove hot , ever so hot , and said to Wee little Havroshechka , ' Come here and sit on this shovel ! ' 
